How do you describe someone like Neil Barnard?
who is a researcher, general manager,
doctor, psychiatrist,
you probably didn't know that, professional musician,
activist,
author with top sales.
Maybe you describe him as someone who never sleeps!
How does one achieve so many achievements?
like these in a single life? I mean, just one of them would be a huge feat!
"Oh! Are you a doctor? Really? Are you a psychiatrist? Are you a successful writer?"
In addition to all this, he is the founder of the Committee of Physicians for Responsible Medicine -PCRM
and ...
there are so many things I could say
for Dr. Barnard ...
It was back in the newspapers on Friday! I don't know, did any of you see it?
The Ministry of Rural Development (USDA) has issued a decision according to which
The dairy industry can no longer publish ads claiming that milk can make you lose weight or keep you lean.
And the reason for this achievement is Dr. Neil Barnard!
Please give a heroic welcome to our next speaker, Dr. Neil Barnard!
Thank you Jeff! Thank you!
A big thank you to Jeff and Sabrina for organizing such a wonderful conference! Can we thank them?
Thank you for what you do! Thank you for inviting me to come again!
I want to talk about cheese!
Can food be addictive?
Some researchers at the University of Michigan collected 384 people in groups
and asked them "What foods are causing you problems?"
And what they meant was:
"What foods do you find difficult to reduce?", "What foods do you lose control of?"
and even when you're full you can't stop eating them? "
You just can't stop ...
At number 5 was "the ice cream",
At number 4 it was "cookies", at number 3 "the chips", at number 2 "chocolate" and at number 1 "pizza" !!!
And I will claim that ... the olives are not to blame!
And the dough isn't to blame either ...
Something is wrong with this sticky cheese that melts everywhere
and it is pulled high ... And it is not true that
when you talk to people who follow a vegetarian diet, they say "it goes extremely well only ....
I really miss the cheese! "
What about that? What happens ; You may love cheese but that doesn't love you ...
And I'd like to talk about that right now. It's fattening! It's addictive!
And it causes a lot of health problems! And people have overlooked it ...
So what causes weight problems? Talk to other people about it,
or you read articles in the press and they tell you that "soft drinks are to blame".
The sugar in them. These are not healthy foods,
but I will ask a question as to whether this is the reason
for the obesity epidemic we see happening, because if you look
consuming sweeteners over time,
increased for a while and from 1999, it began to fall
because people started buying bottled water instead of soft drinks
And if you look at cheese, where does its consumption go? Up and up again up and up!
And in what direction does obesity tend? The cheese follows ...
So why is this happening? If you see the consumption of cheese over time,
In 1909, the Ministry of Rural Development began recording what Americans ate.
And in 1909 cheese was something that "the Swiss eat".
They didn't need it on the continent! The average American did not consume more than about 2 kilos
time! But what happened?
In 1960, 1970, and 1980, fast food chains came.
Pizzerias opened ... And so, cheese became an ingredient
in many foods that people ate every day! Until 2013,
we were at about 15 pounds per person per year!
And I don't eat at all so someone else eats 30 kg.
I would therefore argue that it causes obesity for specific reasons. First, it's full of calories!
And this is probably something you already know, but if you don't know it, this is the most important number:
1 gram of sugar ... one gram is an extremely small amount, it is to 1/28 of an ounce
1 gram of sugar has 4 calories 1 gram of fat has 9 calories
The leanest beef has 29% fat
The chicken ,
(without skin), it doesn't do much better (23%). Fish have variations. Some have higher, some lower.
But if you look at plant foods, they have a very low fat content and they don't have a lot of calories.
So where is the cheese? 70% fat !!!
A little more and it would be Vaseline!
Ok. There is now coca cola zero so you can drink without getting calories.
But is there cheddar zero cheese? I do not think ...
Second, fat in food easily becomes body fat. Let's see what I mean.
Let's say you ate a little more bread. Will this turn into fat in your body?
In fact, no. At least not initially. The carbohydrates found in bread,
they break down and pass into the bloodstream, giving energy to the muscles of the body
and in the brain. It is the energy that moves our body.
Let's say I'm overdoing it. I eat a lot more. Let's say I'm an athlete
and that I "load" a lot of carbs, I eat a lot of bread and a lot of spaghetti. Will they become fat?
No. The reason athletes eat so many carbs is because they go to the muscles
and stored as glycogen. This works like a battery as long as you move.
Glycogen is also stored in your liver.
Theoretically, you can "build" fat from carbohydrates.
But even if you ate all the loaf of bread and it was more than you need and the glycogen stores were full,
If fat was made from it, if you turned bread into fat,
It would be difficult for your body and it uses about 25% of the calories to make it.
On the other hand, the cheese
It is easily converted to fat because it is already made from fat. No special conversion required
You eat it, it goes into your blood, it is stored as fat. Very simple.
Third, fat slows down your metabolism! Here's what I mean. This is a muscle cell.
And the reason I'm showing you a muscle cell is because people usually say:
"Don't lose muscle mass! Your muscles are the ones that burn calories!" Do you know what I mean?
Inside your muscles are the mitochondria (inside the cells).
Do you remember the mitochondria? From the Biology course at school? These burn calories. You have a lot!
But you also have fat.
Doctors don't like the word "fat" because it has only two syllables, so we'll say it
"intramuscular lipid" but it is fat in your cell
and if you ate a little more chicken or beef or velveeta cheese or fried lard,
the above fat accumulates inside your cell.
When that happens
the cell says .... "fantastic"!
"It's perfect! I have fat that I can store no matter what
We're going to go through a period of hunger, I have stored calories that I can use! "
If mitochondria burn them all, they are lost!
So, when fat enters the cell, our body slows down the function of mitochondria.
in order to keep the fat stored. And so the metabolism slows down
to maintain the stored fat reserve.
And that's the opposite of what you want! You say, "Wait, I ate a lot, why are you saving it? You have to get rid of it!"
Our bodies have been programmed, long before, when there were famines
so when people ate something greasy, the body would say, "I'm going to save that."
And as the years go by, the metabolism you had when you were 12 is gone
because mitochondrial function is impaired.
If I follow a low-fat, vegan diet, the effect of time is reversed.
Fourth, cheese has no fiber at all. Fiber will be the most boring part
of this presentation. I apologize for that. But fiber is very important. It is the part of the plant that is not digested.
So it has no calories at all. So when you eat foods high in fiber
you feel full,
he cheats on you thinking you've eaten too much
but you haven't actually eaten as much as you think.
So the fibers deceive the mind into thinking it has eaten too much.
But velveeta (a type of thick cheese) is not a plant, it has no fibers at all
so it gets all the calories it has. Let's look at the amount of fiber:
The baked beans have 5 gr. in 1/2 cup, broccoli has 5 g. per cup, an apple has 4g.
an orange 1g, a banana 3g,
a cup of brown rice 4g.
but the cheese has 0 gr. Yogurt has 0g, milk has 0g. , the meat 0gr.
Animal products have no fibers at all!
Fifth ... something most people don't know. The cheese is very sodium!
It is one of the foods with the highest salt content.
And this increases the ratio in water, (retention). So it can increase the weight.
An orange has about 1mg of sodium,
apple has about 2 mg, a cup of brown rice has 20mg, a potato
has 13mg, a medium-sized potato.
Potatoes have been added sodium 330mg!
One serving of cheddar cheese has 350 mg of sodium!
While a portion of edam cheese has 550 mg. A portion of velveeta cheese has
800 mg sodium! In a single serving!
Why is cheese fattening? It has a lot of calories. Its fat is converted directly into body fat.
It slows down the metabolism day by day.
It has no fiber at all to control your appetite. It has a lot of salt
that retains fluids and carries over a pound of extra water that makes your joints
more "soft" and makes you feel swollen and heavy. You have heard
for the health study of the Millennials. Researchers have studied the lifestyle of Chileans for years
because the teachings of the church tell them not to smoke, not to drink (alcohol),
Avoid caffeine, don't eat meat. "And almost all millennials
they are very good in the first 3. They don't smoke, they don't drink.
They are people with self-control. But some people eat meat
and some do not. And that sets a perfect, natural framework for experimental research that researchers have exploited.
This study, (Adventist Health Study-2),
examined 60,903 participants. They were all over 30 years old
and were divided into 5 groups depending on the diet they followed.
The researchers examined the body mass index of the participants ...
Do you know what that means? BMI? It is your weight in proportion to your height.
A healthy BMI is under 25. (Divide the weight by the square of height in meters).
The red column in the bar chart represents non-vegetarians.
Those who eat meat, in fact. Meat eaters.
Their BMI was about 28.8.
The next column represents the semi-vegetarians. Those who ate meat once a week or less.
They were a little weaker (BMI 27.3). The third group was vegetarians who also ate fish.
They did not eat animals other than fish. They were a little weaker than the previous two teams.
The fourth group had those who were vegetarians but ate dairy and eggs. They are a little weaker than the previous ones.
In the last group, it was the Vegans. (Vegetarians who do not eat any animal products). I always have to tell my students that vegan is not someone from the planet Vegas.
They were not only weaker than the previous ones but
it was also the only team that was below the IMF ceiling.
Let's compare vegetarians who eat dairy with vegans.
I would argue that cheese is one of the biggest culprits involved
with the difference in mass index between them and makes the first thicker.
This difference is around 7 kg. Does that make sense? Ok.
What good is cheese after all? You start with milk. The image is from
a cheese factory in Wisconsin. They receive milk in the morning
and empty it into this tank. Then they add some bacteria that give the cheese this strange smell
because there is fermentation with the sugars contained in milk.
Then add the rennet. It is an enzyme
present in the stomach (warhead) of a newborn calf, which is now dead.
They remove the enzymes from it and add them to the cheese.
Although coincidentally,
this is now an expensive source of enzyme (for industries)
and so, in almost all factories now, genetically modified products are used for rennet.
In some "traditional" places, such as the factory in Winconson, they boast that they still use beef enzymes.
Then let it thicken and strain the whey liquids
which is a mixture of water and lactose and some other elements
and then compressed to remove excess water. To what is left as cheese, add salt.
What is done with this process is that you get liquid milk and turn it into solid.
This increases calories, concentrates protein, raises cholesterol
and fats and most of all, increases sodium (salt).
So ... why am I addicted to it? Why do people like cheese so much?
I think there are three reasons. The world likes salty flavors.
They also like fatty foods. In addition, there are kazomorphins in cheese.
So salt is added generously when preparing cheese
and this is done to kill the bacteria
or to stop further fermentation. So they add a lot of salt
and this strengthens the taste that people like so much. The oiliness that is known to everyone
and it makes you wash your hands after eating pizza, these animal fats are on all your fingers.
I think it's the combination of salty and greasy that people like so much.
For example, french fries and chips. But kazomorphs are interesting.
They are opioids. Have you heard them? These are opioids.
When I say opioids, I mean that chemicals belong to the same category as heroin.
Or morphine or demerol (opioid painkiller brand) or any type of painkiller.
But they are formed (kazomorphins) as the casein protein
breaks down into digestion. A typical protein is like a chain of beads.
You see it through a powerful microscope and observe the amino acids
to join together next to each other.
And you swallow this and the digestive enzymes break it into pieces.
And every "bead" passes into your blood and your body gets these amino acids
and synthesizes new proteins.
However, dairy does not work that way. Casein enzymes
they do give some amino acids but they also give some "chains" ...
This will be in the subject matter ...
These "threads" of four, five, seven amino acids that are biologically active
and go down the digestive tract,
they pass into the blood, they cross the blood-brain barrier
and attach themselves to the same brain receptors that heroin would go to!
What are they doing there? These are the kazomorphs.
Morphine-like compounds derived from casein.
They exist because nature simply does not want to leave anything to chance.
The baby calf says ... "mother, I don't think I want to breastfeed today,
I will go to the forest with my friends. See you on Thursday! ”Or if a human baby
she does not want to breastfeed
and moving away from the chest, it is not going to develop properly.
So when the body makes milk, it puts protein,
water and some sugars in the form of lactose,
a little fat, some hormones and a little bit of something that makes you feel good.
Have you ever looked at a baby's face while breastfeeding?
At first they are so intense and then they seem to fall apart and fall asleep.
And we say, "Isn't the bond between mother and child beautiful?" You just beat the child! (laughter from the audience)
This is part of the underlying bond between mother and baby.
And of course, nature assures "don't worry, all mammals are weaned!"
That is, when you no longer need breast milk and you are independent, you will not get milk!
But people are so "creative" that they thought you never need to wean!
You can get kazomorphs all your life! And in huge quantities, in fact!
The reason for this ... Is it understandable? Ok. This is morphineptin.
This kazomorphine has 1/10 of the binding strength in receptors than morphine.
This means that it goes to the brain, clings to us and gives us a slightly nice feeling to want more.
What I just told you is no secret ...
The dairy industry knows them very well, they have done research on them
and they want to take advantage of them. So, in cooperation with the US government,
the dairy industry has decided to push the world into cheese addiction.
I want to show you some slides. They are not my slides.
I found them through the US government's free access to information bill.
In 2003, the US government, in collaboration with Dairy Association Inc. , (trade union of dairy farmers)
co-organized the "Cheese Forum" (as a conference with presentations and discussions).
And they wanted to come up with something out of the ordinary.
"Can we spark a strong desire for cheese?" Here's what they meant ...
They decided that consumers are divided into 2 categories in relation to cheese. Those who eat uncontrollably and those who snack.
The second category will take some cheese and throw it in the salad.
This is not the team we want. In the first group, however, they are the ones who will open the refrigerator,
they will cut and devour a large piece of cheese, they will put it everywhere on the pizza
and they can double or even triple the amount they eat depending on how you manage the ad.
We want this team ... To repeat ...
These are not my transparencies but those of the US government. That's exactly what they decided to do.
So what do we want a complete promotion and advertising program to do? To spark a strong desire for cheese!
And how do we do that? You don't go to every neighborhood restaurant to say "please
can you promote it If you put it in front of the world, they may keep asking for it. "That would take a century!
What the government did was very smart! Fast food chains,
they make the decisions in the head offices and apply them to all their branches.
So the government made a contract with Wendy's
which I can show you if you want to see it, and they promoted something called
"Wendy's cheeseburger with bacon for cheddar lovers!" ,
as planned by the government.
And about 1.5 million kilos of cheese (380 tons of fat!) Were sold, just for advertising.
That's good ! Too easy ! With a single contract I can sell tons of cheese!
They then partnered with Subway, which had two cheese-free sandwiches.
They fixed this ... They worked with Pizza Hut to make the "Supreme Pizza with Cheese"!
Which had half a kilo of cheese in each serving !!!
With Burger King, Taco Bell ... They put on a hat (to the employees) that said, "Oh, the power of cheese!"
And they were told "when people come to the ordering node, you will not just say Welcome to Taco Bell but ask
Want to try a quesadilla today? "(Mexican pie with cheese and chicken) Make them suggestions at every opportunity
and make sure the cheese is on all the products on the list.
By the way, don't be paranoid. That is the way the government works.
They work with the industry to promote farming.
And the health consequences are completely secondary!
In their minds at least ...
Of course, because something is fattening, it's not necessarily a cause for concern.
Lard is fattening. It has 9 calories in 1 gram. It's very fattening!
But who eats it? People don't eat a lot of lard.
And if something is addictive, it's not necessarily problematic. Coffee is addictive.
Tea is addictive. It has caffeine. This is not necessarily a bad thing but
it won't make you weigh 200 pounds.
But if something is addictive and fattening at the same time as cheese, then we are talking about a serious factor in obesity.
Let's talk about health complications.
This is Kathryn Lawrence. Some of you may be familiar with Kathryn
Kathryn is one of the trainers in our Life Food program! I met Kathryn because ...
Kathryn grew up in Louisiana. He was an aerospace engineer and worked for the Air Force.
And he went to Iraq (in 2003). He was one of the first to go because he had planned
military bases. And working there,
he worked very hard, eating whatever was available,
you don't get fat like that. She returned home after finishing her term.
And her friends often took her out to eat.
She loved eating in Louisiana. Especially cheese, shrimp cheetos, etc.
A friend of hers noticed that she loves spaghetti with cheese in a box.
You know, these packaged spaghetti with cheese that students usually eat (because of the low cost).
She loved them and so a friend of hers gave her a whole box! For 48 days he ate only these!
Packaged spaghetti with cheese!
Kathryn began to complain that something was wrong with her body.
He began to gain weight and developed a condition called "endometriosis." Do you know her
It starts with severe stomach pains.
And the period cycle is disturbed.
What happens is that some endometrial cells leave
and spread to other areas of the abdomen.
They begin to swell and contract constantly and cause
great pain! It even leads to infertility. And it was getting worse ....
The doctor told her: "Kathryn, I know you wanted to have children
but you are not going to have children. There is only one cure for you.
You need surgery. You need a hysterectomy. "
Keep that thought ... A friend of hers told her this
"You know dairy has hormones. Why don't you eat a vegetarian diet?"
Here is the science behind it.
A cow does not produce milk unless it is pregnant.
Like all mammals, they become pregnant, give birth and produce milk.
As the pregnancy progresses ...
hormones are produced in the cow's body
and you can measure them in the blood plasma and these hormones end up in milk.
Here you go! And the majority of milk you've ever drunk
and is on store shelves, comes from pregnant cows.
Because they make them permanently pregnant.
And they have a lot of estrogen in them that matches your estrogen!
Does that affect us? Does it affect women?
I do not know ! But researchers are looking for it and the findings are interesting.
In 2010, Australian researchers studied 766 menopausal women.
That means they would have nothing to do with high estrogen.
They were divided into 4 groups depending on how many dairy products they ate.
The group on the left (green) are the ones who avoid dairy.
The other three groups often consumed dairy products. What really seems to make a difference is
"Do you eat them or not?" From the moment people eat them in sufficient quantities,
their blood is filled with estradiol.
Men watch out! Researchers at the University of Rochester in New York,
they went to a fertility clinic and did research with questionnaires
asking if they belong to a low-fat cheese group eating half a serving of cheese a day
or if they belong to a high-consumption group by eating 1-2.5 servings a day.
And they compared sperm counts and found that those who avoided cheese
had better sperm counts than frequent consumers who were very low.
This may be due to
that there are female hormones in milk because cows are permanently pregnant and with each glass of milk you get estradiol?
I do not know ! But Kathryn said, "Let's try it!"
He became a vegan and went for exams again.
Her doctor did another laparoscopy.
And he looked and looked until he stopped.
The exam is over. The doctor came out and told her husband
"It simply came to our notice then.
Endometriosis has completely disappeared! "
Her husband replied, "It's amazing!
I didn't expect the diet to work but it felt better and better. It's wonderful!"
And the doctor said, "No! It's impossible for this to happen from the diet. That's it
miracle !!! "
Medical science works miraculously. He lost weight, the endometriosis disappeared, he has two children!
And now she's one of our dietitians on the Food for Life program.
She shares her story and invites people to believe that it is worth seeing if asparagus can help you!
This is Kathryn today! This is Mark Ramirez from Detroit. He grew up in Texas.
Mark played (American) football for the University of Michigan and if you weigh 150 kilos this is good
if your job is to break the line of defense of your opponents.
However, after the end of their athletic career, they did not manage to lose weight
and began to eat enough meat and cheese
He gained more weight, developed diabetes and high blood pressure
and erectile dysfunction that many men have
and as you may or may not know, erectile dysfunction is not caused by "performance anxiety."
Erectile dysfunction is caused by narrowing of the arteries.
And just as stenosis can cause heart and brain problems, it affects all male organs.
And what Viagra does is open up a bit of the arteries that have been clogged with so many years of poor nutrition.
It opens them a little. That's all it takes.
After all, Mark had these problems. And he was taking a lot of medicine.
I want to analyze a little bit how diabetes works.
This is the same cell I showed you before.
If you have diabetes ... You have glucose,
sugar, in your blood trying to get into the cell
to give energy to the cell. This is what glucose does.
The problem with diabetes is that instead of getting into the cell,
Glucose collects in the bloodstream and you need to measure it.
If it got into the cell, everything would be fine. You need insulin to get into the cell.
Insulin is the key to the hormone made in the pancreas
and goes into the blood and emerges on the surface of the blood
and clings to this red receiver like the key to the lock
and makes these channels open and accept glucose into the cell.
That's the way it should be, but if you have type 2 diabetes,
you have glucose, insulin, receptors, you have it all!
But you also have ... intramuscular lipid!
Fat to grow in the cell! And that prevents the process from working properly!
When I was a child in North Dakota, some kids made fun of their neighbors.
When you were not home, they would come to the front door
and they put chewing gum in the lock and then ran and hid behind the bushes.
You would go home, take out the keys, put them in the lock ...
you were trying to lock them in and they wouldn't come in!
And you looked at the key and it was fine. But either you'll go out the window for a lifetime or
you would call someone to clean the lock. It was a hoax.
You do not have chewing gum in the cell. You have fat!
Typical diabetes therapies overlook this. They don't face it.
In a vegetarian diet, you eliminate fat from your diet
and this begins to decrease inside the cell. And so the signaling, the normal process,
starts working again. Diabetes improves and in some cases is cured.
And that's what happened to Mark! Mark was constantly improving and the doctor
she finally said, "Mark, I don't know what you're doing! Your blood sugar is so low that you don't need medication!"
Finally, the diagnosis of diabetes was recorded! Diabetes is gone. He followed a vegetarian diet, the years passed
and it is impossible without diabetes and without health problems.
Let's talk about asthma. This is Chad from Portsmouth.
Chad was a very active child. He liked sports but he didn't
He could play baseball due to asthma as he had a seizure after exercise.
Because of the pollen that had smelled.
He had a lot of allergies. He was allergic to dust, various environmental factors, and animals
If he went to a friend's house, he couldn't stand their dog and their cat.
And someone, when he was 18, told him
"Do dairy products cause it? Why don't you avoid it?"
And he did! He ruled them out. Within 3 months (!!!) not only the asthma had disappeared
but also his allergies! But why ;
In a way, avoiding milk antigens
he made his body react differently.
Scientists have investigated. Can dairy products worsen asthma?
If you go to google and click asthma dairy ("asthma dairy"),
The first thing that comes to mind is the National Council for Asthma
of Australia who conducted a survey answering this very question.
"Dairy products have often been accused of triggering asthma.
However, there are few scientific findings that support such a myth. And unfortunately,
Many Australians lose the valuable benefits of consuming milk, cheese and yogurt as they do not eat enough dairy in their daily lives! "
Half a minute ... something is wrong here ....
So, I'll look at their website to see who their financiers are!
And "Australian Dairy" is one of their six sponsors while the other 5 are pharmaceutical companies.
So one has profits if you buy cheese
while others have gains if you get sick and stay sick.
So,
I looked at the research that had been cited, saying that there was no correlation.
They were not big studies but I looked at them. One was from New York University in 1991
with 11 adult asthmatics and drank whole milk with little fat or water.
What they showed was that if they drank whole milk,
the gases passing through the lungs worsened.
And they thought it was due to milk fat.
So the cheese would be even worse ... Then there was a study with children from the United Kingdom.
The children were between the ages of 3-14 and were put on a diet without any milk or eggs
for 8 weeks. And the way you look at asthma,
if you know someone who has asthma or if you have one, try to see if the child
can easily exhale, expel air. Because it's worse there.
What they found was that as long as they stayed away from eggs and dairy,
the ability to exhale was much, much better! It really helped them clean up.
This study lasted 8 weeks and coincidentally, Easter was in the middle of this period.
They went to the chocolate factory and asked if there were chocolate bunnies without milk.
They didn't ... So these kids got a lot better. Eventually, I couldn't find any clues
to reject this but people have not given enough importance because no one makes money
if you stop consuming milk. But all the evidence I've seen
and many, many cases of people, all show that it is worth trying.
This is Chad! He has no allergies, no asthma, he has his own dog
he is not allergic to his dog or other dogs
and works at the RouxBe cooking school which as some of you know has a great program, the Culinary RX
where doctors say “let us guide you to use these
nutritional techniques to see if you can improve. "
Migraines! Many people have migraines. This is Lauren.
Lauren, 23, is a law student. One day at school,
her eyesight began to "narrow", she was in great pain
in the middle of her head, she was nauseous and vomited.
And she wasn't impressed ...
Because she was a member of her family who had the same symptoms and knew it was a migraine.
The word comes from the Greek. "Half" means half, "skull", half head.
Because very often the pain is in half of the head. Very intense.
It lasts a long time. If you are moving,
or it has a lot of light or a loud sound, it drives you crazy
and it can last all night or even 2 days and makes it difficult for you no matter what you do.
And anyone who has had migraines has heard of the foods that trigger them.
Cheeses, sausages, fermented foods, etc.
What they tell you, on every relevant page
is that these foods have Tyrosine which is converted to Tyramine
and it strains your brain. True.
But we've seen a lot of people with migraines that are triggered by something else.
It is not necessary to be this (tyramine).
The Children's Hospital of London, 1983,
began researching children's migraines. They took 88 children
and put on a diet that excluded certain foods.
Not just dairy but other allergenic foods.
78 children stopped having headaches
while 4 had partial improvement. That's good.
In adults we do not see this degree of improvement but we see up to 50%
and may be triggered by those other than dairy
However, dairy products are the ones that are mentioned more often, even if you suffer from migraines
and you can't function properly and you're constantly taking medication,
it's really worth trying to cut them and see how you evolve. Lauren is now free of migraines.
Let's talk about rheumatoid arthritis. If you see your joints
If you have arthritis, your joints are inflamed.
Articular lining is bad ... It has inflammation.
He has inflammations because he is being attacked by the immune system
which has been activated by a protein that has invaded your body.
This is how the immune system works. A virus and its proteins enter
activate the immune response. This may not be a virus
but some other type of protein that entered the body.
And what proteins do people get when they are sensitive to milk protein?
Well...
The researchers studied it and began with a case study in 1985
One girl had advanced childhood arthritis
and a doctor suggested, a conscientious doctor,
he offered to cut her dairy to see if they were to blame. The symptoms have disappeared!
Then she went to visit her grandmother who gave her chocolates.
And her symptoms are back! He cut them again and the symptoms disappeared.
And a pediatrician said that this is not possible and look at calcium.
And one of her symptoms disappeared, one was cured until the pattern was obvious.
They published the results of the research in the journal of the Royal Medical Academy as a case study.
There may be other people whose diet is affected by arthritis.
Dietary triggering does not happen to everyone but
in about 20-60% of patients, according to studies.
In Oslo, Norway, patients were put on fasting with juice and then
in a vegan diet and then in a vegetarian diet but already from the first month
found clear correlations between improvement in symptoms and diet as well as improvement in biomarkers,
less pain, less swelling, etc. John McDougall in a study in Santa Rosa,
He used a low-fat vegan diet and found that in 4 weeks
saw immediate improvement, especially in individuals
who had recently developed rheumatoid arthritis.
Prostate cancer is one of the most common cancers.
And for many, many years, researchers have said that it is something related to milk.
Countries with the highest dairy consumption index also had the highest rates of prostate cancer.
At Harvard, a study of doctors' health showed that
in 20,885 doctors, 2.5 servings of cheese
per day increase the chances of prostate cancer by 34%.
They also conducted another study to monitor the health of health workers.
and found the same. More milk, more prostate cancer. In this case, at 60%.
Well, what we think is happening is that the effect
of hormones from milk, triggers the onset of cancer or
most likely, its rapid, aggressive evolution.
So instead of cancer cells dying, they grow and grow.
This is Chicago. In the health and aging program,
researchers have looked at the disease that may be the scariest of all!
They took hundreds of men and women and asked them about their diet.
And as the years went by, they noticed who had Alzheimer's.
And the first foods they put on the list were the ones I knew well and I know as a child that grew up in North Dakota ...
My mom had 5 kids and we went down to the kitchen.
He used a fork to pick up the bacon from the pan
and put it on napkins to drain
and then carefully lift the hot pan
and pour the excess fat into a jar. Did your mom do that too?
He would save it. And he didn't put it in the fridge but on the shelf
why did he know that when the fat cools on its own, what happens to it? It hardens, it becomes solid.
And that's a sign that it's full of saturated fat.
These are the bad fats that raise your cholesterol. And of course, the next day, he put it back in the pan
and fried eggs. It is a miracle that her children managed to grow up. But we did it.
But the No. 1 source is not the bacon but the dairy!
And meat is No. 2. And some people in Chicago
they don't eat a lot of saturated fat. Around 13 gr. per day while others eat a lot, around 25g.
And the researchers said, ok ... Are these two groups the same?
In relation to how much they developed Alzheimer's, what risk did they have? And here are the numbers.
These are the ones who ate a little fat (in green) and those who ate a lot.
They did the research again, focusing on trans fats.
The fats that are in snacks. And the data they found is almost the same as those in heart disease.
If you eat bad fats,
you have a high risk. If you avoid it, it is low risk. It is amazing.
And what they are showing us is that those of us who used to think that Alzheimer's is
purely genetic ... Genes are in two categories.
The genes that act dictatorially that give orders! You will have blue eyes!
But Alzheimer's genes are more like committees. They make suggestions ...
You may be developing Alzheimer's. But it depends on your lifestyle.
You may develop diabetes ... Many of the gene diseases do not belong to the "dictatorial" genes.
It's not "all or nothing". Whether they occur depends largely on what you do in your life.
Cheese and dairy are overwhelmingly the biggest sources
saturated fats in the American diet. Even when people say "avoid them,"
do not go to the next step to say "do not consume dairy products that are full of saturated"
I would like to change the subject and yes
talk about issues that are not directly related to health but
are an incentive for many people and if they make sense to you,
I would like to share with you some facts that you may not have thought of. When I went home to Fargo,
where I grew up, I took these photos. Beautiful corn meadows
extending as far as the eye can see. Identical plants, (laughs)
genetically modified corn that no human will ever consume.
These are for cows, pigs and chickens.
And you can't grow ... Americans eat
one million animals every hour (!!!). You can't raise so many animals
without fertilizers and watering etc.
And if you have to water, you will use a lot of water. Here are the numbers. If you brush your teeth
and let the tap run, you will consume about 3.5 liters of water.
If you take a nice shower, about 75 liters.
Washing your car, 246 liters.
But to produce 3.5 liters of milk, the water will be needed
to water the food that the animal will eat for these 3.5 liters, is 2.5 tons !!!
And this is for 3 kilos of clover. No man will ever eat so much.
This all goes to cows.
The fertilizer used in the crops,
then goes to the rivers and streams. The nitrogen and the phosphorus
they go into river waters and cause overgrowth of algae
and other forms of life are killed.
And if you look at the bottom of Mississippi, where all our water ends up, below Louisiana in Texas.
There is a dead zone as big as New Jersey.
And that's primarily because they use fertilizers
to grow food for the animals so that you get the small amount of food you get from the animal.
Climate change ... I don't need to tell you ... This was a controversial issue, 5 years ago.
It is no longer controversial. Everyone knows that watering cows releases methane.
It comes out of their mouths as their stomachs digest them and produce methane
and they flow it. And how much can they produce? There are about 100 million cows.
And if you put them all on one side of the scales and the people on the other,
our cows gain a lot of weight ...
And they are constantly producing methane as well as other chemicals that affect the greenhouse effect.
And cows produce something else ...
This is a dung beetle. And the reason I'm showing you this is because this beetle is creative in doing things
with manure ... This is the secretary of the Ministry of Rural Development. (laugh)
If you go to a typical dairy, each cow produces in one day
about 30 liters of milk.
I will not use manure but chocolate milk as an example.
About 57 liters of manure are produced.
In other words, for every 1 liter of milk, about 2 liters of manure are produced.
Where do I put so much manure? For someone who already has it all, you can get him a "manure digger"! (the smart digester: -P)
And you will see these in every dairy unit and you can also subscribe to the magazine for "Manure Management"!
Have you seen that? That's awesome ! They also have the Kopria Trade Fair.
It took place in Chesabergsburg, Pennsylvania, but there is a whole world out there.
by people trying to figure out how to manage the manure and how to make money from it.
Ethical Issues .... There are no ethical issues with dairy.
Since they do not kill cows. Correctly ; Cows give you milk.
Well ... If you go to the website
of the United Nations on nutrition and agriculture, you will find a guide for small farms
to see how you can do it yourself.
And these are not my slides. They are UN slides with these graphic representations ...
"How do we get milk?" You have to get sperm first.
And they use an artificial colon ... I don't invent these, I can't imagine them.
If you get a "bay dummy", so they say,
and with it you get semen from the bull,
then you take it with your left hand and put it in the anus of the cow ...
Every glass of milk you've ever drunk came from this process.
You take your left hand, you put it in the anus of the cow. Through the rectal wall, you feel the uterus.
Then you take with your right hand a device like a needle, which has the sperm inside and
you pass it to the cervix to inject it. This will make the cow pregnant.
And the moment you do, you spray the cow on the side. That's what it looks like.
And nine months later, she will give birth.
However, if the baby calf stays with his mom
this will hurt my industry because it will drink the milk and I will not be able to sell it. So the calf ends up in a loader.
If the baby is male, he will become a calf quickly. (and so it will be slaughtered quickly)
If it's female, I can use it.
But I will not let her drink the milk. I will give her a replacement and put her in this cage
until she is ready and fat to get pregnant (and produce milk).
They have them chained so they can't react anyway to getting them pregnant all the time.
And they make them pregnant every year and produce milk until they are about 4 years old
whereupon they lose their productive age. So, if I kill you and replace you
with a newer cow, I get more milk for each feeding unit.
Although life expectancy for cows is much higher, they kill about 4 years old.
This is from the newspaper in Newburyport, Massachusetts.
Strange sounds were coming from the boulevard near the Livestock Farm "Iliachtida", on Monday night
and until yesterday morning, they led the local police to reassure the annoyed citizens as
it was not something haunted or scary.
According to Patty Fisher, head of the Newbury department, the sounds came from the mourning cows of the mothers.
for the separation of their young babies. "It happens every year," he said.
And if you go to a dairy, you will see the mother cow giving birth
and then lick her baby and the baby calf perches on his mother and the breeder chases it away.
And then the breeder takes the calf, puts it in a stroller and takes it away.
And the cow gets up and follows him and tries to stop him.
The breeder always wins and then the cows cry every night.
And people in the dairy industry know this and call it a "reflex reaction."
But there is no greater bond in nature
from the bond between mother and baby.
Because if this bond did not exist for the mother to do everything to raise the baby, the species would not survive.
And the dairy industry is demanding that this bond be broken! Otherwise you can't sell
the product for which you polished the cow. This is your product, not theirs ...
In females then, they "decode". They cut their horns because they can hit you.
This is called "decapitation" or upper amputation if you do it at a very young age. They do not use anesthetic.
So, of course, they kill them!
This image is from May 2015. They sent 214,000 cows to the slaughter.
That month only. I will quote this. Did I cheer you up?
But things I can eat instead? Of course ! It is very easy !
I don't need to eat this cheese or this pizza. Although they will sell it to me.
And of course...
There is nutritional yeast. People eat it because it has a lot of protein
but it has this cheese flavor that goes perfectly with pizza and lasagna, etc.
And there are so many ingredients to make a pizza
and a million ingredients to accompany a salad. No need to put cheese!
And there are so many ways to make lasagna and a bunch of food. So ...
instead of cheese, put hummus in the sandwich. In Fargo (a city in northern Dakota), we have never heard of hummus
but I'm very happy that someone showed it to me because it's very useful!
There are many ways to replace this product (cheese) and feel good!
I wrote a book on this subject because I was so ...
so troubled by the fact that no one knows about it.
While they are addicted to it. I think if we cut it out of our diet,
We will have already come a long way to get rid of several health problems that afflict us.
The foods we want to focus on are fruits, nuts, seeds, vegetables, legumes.
If we really focus on them, I honestly think we will change a lot of things!
But you will tell me "Wait! You are a dreamer ...
People love them and are addicted to them. You said it! Who will cut it?
And there's a huge industry out there to fight you
because if you claim that there is a better choice or vegan cheese, then they will not work!
They have political influence and the government on their side! "And yet, here's why we win ...
A generation ago, I was at the hospital where I worked, at George Washington University Hospital.
and we had a disagreement about whether we could ban smoking in hospitals.
Patients really liked to smoke .... Our patients would even smoke in bed, as long as the oxygen was not open.
We sold cigarettes in the gift shop ... and I bought them. I was buying Merit Menthols
and I turned it on as I went down to the doctors' living room,
the director of surgery was with me, he was taking Marlboros,
and we smoked in the hallway. And we weren't stupid. We knew that cigarettes cause cancer but we also knew we had time ...
It takes time ... If I cut it, I'll be fine.
So ... at some point we thought "Okay, end of year! We have to cut it.
And to be precise, we have to be role models! Let's ban smoking in the hospital. But it was controversial.
There were big industries and a lot of people who wanted the product. Can we do it?
We made the decision and within two weeks, we knew we were right!
And all the hospitals then did the same! And then, every restaurant and every public building.
And every building and every airline, etc. Everyone made the same decision and everyone knew they were right.
And this huge political force,
The tobacco industry began to diversify.
They started making other products because they weren't stupid.
And they weren't deliberately immoral. At least not in the beginning. They started growing tobacco
because no one knew, when the industry started it, that it was causing lung cancer.
But the industry has changed and there is no one on the planet who can ignore it.
It may be a cold February morning and someone in Washington ends a cigarette outside.
before allowing him to enter the building where smoking is prohibited.
At this point we are now with food. We know we have a problem.
We know that if we change our diet we can benefit and we know when we look at our children
that it is the sickest generation ever. (unhealthy)
But I don't know ... the food is so delicious ... the industries are so strong, you can't fight them ...
But half a minute .... End of year!
The time frame is over! And we need to make some changes now!
And the way to make these changes is not by waving your finger, making people feel guilty.
The way to make a difference is to inform people and really convey the information to them
and that's why I love what's going on here ... We exchange information
and recipes and we discuss what works for everyone.
And we're having a good time with that!
You can have a good time with the food and the flavors! And there are even ridiculous things about food!
There are fantastic recipes, wonderful products, very nice websites and books
and when you see all this you understand that this is not an "deprivation" but an adventure!
And people feel liberated when they discover so many new things they can take advantage of!
And I'm sure that one February morning, not far from now,
There will be someone shivering from the cold outside a building in Washington and eating the last bite of a chicken wing
before allowing him to enter the vegan building !!! I want to see this day!
Thank you very much ! Thank you very much !